For decades, Donald J. Trump was one of the few prominent Americans to recognize the true nature of the Chinese Communist Party and its threat to America’s economic and political way of life. Now, under President Trump’s leadership, the United States is taking action to protect our nation and its partners from an increasingly assertive China. We are no longer turning a blind eye to the People’s Republic of China’s conduct nor are we hiding our criticism of its Communist Party behind closed doors. The speeches included in this book, starting with Vice President Mike Pence’s groundbreaking remarks on October 2018 and ending with President Trump’s call to action at the 75th session of the United Nations General Assembly, are a key component of the Administration’s effort to protect the American people. Until now, senior American officials had never spoken publicly with such candor and consistency about the challenge posed by China to our nation. Earlier this year, President Trump asked four of his most senior national security officials, myself, Christopher Wray, William Barr, and Michael Pompeo, to explain current U.S. policy on China to the American people. Over the summer of 2020, we did so in a series of speeches delivered around the country. Collectively, the remarks contained in this book achieve several important objectives. They educate our citizens about the threat posed by the Chinese Communist Party to their livelihoods, businesses, freedoms, and values. These speeches also alert our allies and partners so that they, too, should stand up for their own people, and for our mutual interests and values. The competition with which we are faced is not China versus the United States. It is the Chinese Communist Party, with its MarxistLeninist and mercantilist vision for the world, versus freedom-loving people everywhere. These high-level speeches serve to combat the propaganda machine at the heart of the Chinese Communist Party’s global strategy. President Trump understands that it is past time for America to counter China’s messaging about the supposed strengths of its authoritarian model. In his 2018 address to the Hudson Institute, Vice President Pence discussed the whole-of-government approach that the Chinese Communist Party is employing to advance its influence in the United States, using political, economic, military, and propaganda tools. Following Vice President Pence’s address, Deputy National Security Advisor Matthew Pottinger spoke to a worldwide Chinese audience about the populist democracy movement that began a century ago in Beijing and is the proud heritage of the Chinese people. He demonstrated that Chinese history contains another path for China’s people.Next, I explained the ideology and global ambitions of the Chinese Communist Party to a business forum in Phoenix, Arizona. Many in the West, especially in the business community, are not aware that China today is one of the last few Marxist-Leninist nations on earth. FBI Director Wray followed with an exposé of the pervasiveness of the People’s Republic of China’s espionage and intellectual property theft from our government, our companies, and our partners. He noted that such theft constitutes one of the greatest wealth transfers in human history. Attorney General Barr, for his part, warned the American business community of its obligation to protect our national security notwithstanding the blandishments of the Party and the lure of the Chinese market. Secretary Pompeo concluded the series by outlining what has become the most significant shift in U.S. foreign policy in a generation. America’s diplomats and policy makers, he explains are rising to China’s once-in-a-generation challenge and confronting the threat across the entire diplomatic spectrum. President Trump’s two speeches, from May and September 2020, hold the Chinese Communist Party accountable for the Covid-19 pandemic. The President made clear that Beijing’s blunders no longer affect only the Chinese people, as they did under Mao Zedong. They impact the entire world. President Trump points out that beyond the Covid-19 pandemic, China’s environmental devastation in the Pacific and illegal over-fishing in every ocean are but two examples of how China treats the rest of the world. On the occasion of China’s ending of the “one country, two systems” construct that had guaranteed Hong Kong’s freedom until 2047, the President announced a range of significant penalties, noting the “plain facts [of what China did] cannot be overlooked or swept aside.” It is my profound honor to address the United Nations General Assembly. Seventy-five years after the end of World War II and the founding of the United Nations, we are once again engaged in a great global struggle. We have waged a fierce battle against the invisible enemy—the China virus—which has claimed countless lives in 188 countries. In the United States, we launched the most aggressive mobilization since the Second World War. We rapidly produced a record supply of ventilators, creating a surplus that allowed us to share them with friends and partners all around the globe. We pioneered life-saving treatments, reducing our fatality rate 85 percent since April. Thanks to our efforts, three vaccines are in the final stage of clinical trials. We are mass-producing them in advance so they can be delivered immediately upon arrival. We will distribute a vaccine, we will defeat the virus, we will end the pandemic, and we will enter a new era of unprecedented prosperity, cooperation, and peace. As we pursue this bright future, we must hold accountable the nation which unleashed this plague onto the world: China. In the earliest days of the virus, China locked down travel domestically while allowing flights to leave China and infect the world. China condemned my travel ban on their country, even as they cancelled domestic flights and locked citizens in their homes. The Chinese government and the World Health Organization—which is virtually controlled by China—falsely declared that there was no evidence of human-to-human transmission. Later, they falsely said people without symptoms would not spread the disease. The United Nations must hold China accountable for their actions. In addition, every year, China dumps millions and millions of tons of plastic and trash into the oceans, overfishes other countries’ waters, destroys vast swaths of coral reef, and emits more toxic mercury into the atmosphere than any country anywhere in the world. China’s carbon emissions are nearly twice what the U.S. has, and it’s rising fast. By contrast, after I withdrew from the one-sided Paris Climate Accord, last year America reduced its carbon emissions by more than any country in the agreement. Those who attack America’s exceptional environmental record while ignoring China’s rampant pollution are not interested in the environment. They only want to punish America, and I will not stand for it.
If the United Nations is to be an effective organization, it must focus on the real problems of the world. This includes terrorism, the oppression of women, forced labor, drug trafficking, human and sex trafficking, religious persecution, and the ethnic cleansing of religious minorities. America will always be a leader in human rights. My administration is advancing religious liberty, opportunity for women, the decriminalization of homosexuality, combatting human trafficking, and protecting unborn children. We also know that American prosperity is the bedrock of freedom and security all over the world. In three short years, we built the greatest economy in history, and we are quickly doing it again. Our military has increased substantially in size. We spent $2.5 trillion over the last four years on our military. We have the most powerful military anywhere in the world, and it’s not even close. We stood up to decades of China’s trade abuses. We revitalized the NATO Alliance, where other countries are now paying a much more fair share. We forged historic partnerships with Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador to stop human smuggling. We are standing with the people of Cuba, Nicaragua, and Venezuela in their righteous struggle for freedom. We withdrew from the terrible Iran Nuclear Deal and imposed crippling sanctions on the world’s leading state sponsor of terror. We obliterated the ISIS caliphate 100 percent; killed its founder and leader, al-Baghdadi; and eliminated the world’s top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani. This month, we achieved a peace deal between Serbia and Kosovo. We reached a landmark breakthrough with two peace deals in the Middle East, after decades of no progress. Israel, the United Arab Emirates, and Bahrain all signed a historic peace agreement in the White House, with many other Middle Eastern countries to come. They are coming fast, and they know it’s great for them and it’s great for the world. These groundbreaking peace deals are the dawn of the new Middle East. By taking a different approach, we have achieved different outcomes—far superior outcomes. We took an approach, and the approach worked. We intend to deliver more peace agreements shortly, and I have never been more optimistic for the future of the region. There is no blood in the sand. Those days are, hopefully, over. As we speak, the United States is also working to end the war in Afghanistan, and we are bringing our troops home. America is fulfilling our destiny as peacemaker, but it is peace through strength. We are stronger now than ever before. Our weapons are at an advanced level like we’ve never had before—like, frankly, we’ve never even thought of having before. And I only pray to God that we never have to use them.
For decades, the same tired voices proposed the same failed solutions, pursuing global ambitions at the expense of their own people. But only when you take care of your own citizens will you find a true basis for cooperation. As President, I have rejected the failed approaches of the past, and I am proudly putting America first, just as you should be putting your countries first. That’s okay—that’s what you should be doing. I am supremely confident that next year, when we gather in person, we will be in the midst of one of the greatest years in our history—and frankly, hopefully, in the history of the world. Thank you. God bless you all. God bless America. And God bless the United Nations.